Add instructions for running vLLM backend (#8)
triton-inference-server/vllm_backend: README.md

# vLLM Backend

The Triton backend for [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).
You can learn more about Triton backends in the [backend
repo](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend). Ask
questions or report problems on the [issues
page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).
This backend is designed to run [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)
with
[vLLM supported models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)
it supports.

Where can I ask general questions about Triton and Triton backends?
Be sure to read all the information below as well as the [general
Triton documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server#triton-inference-server)
available in the main [server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)
repo. If you don't find your answer there you can ask questions on the
main Triton [issues page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

## Build the vLLM Backend

As a Python-based backend, your Triton server just needs to have the [Python backend](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend)

> located in the backends directory: `/opt/tritonserver/backends/python`. After that, you can save the vLLM backend in the backends folder as `/opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm`. The `model.py` file in the `src` directory should be in the vllm folder and will function as your Python-based backend.

Reviewer: I would also clarify, that `/opt/tritonserver/backends` is the default location for backends in our containers.

Author: Switched to your instructions, so no longer a need to talk about the backends directory, I think. :)

> In other words, there are no build steps. You only need to copy this to your Triton backends repository. If you use the official Triton vLLM container, this is already set up for you.

Reviewer: There are a couple of options, how you can build  vLLM backend. 
Option 1. You can follow steps described in [Building With Docker](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/customization_guide/build.md#building-with-docker) and use `build.py` script.
The sample command will build a Triton Server container with all available options enabled:
 ```
./build.py -v --image=base,${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_NAME}
                 --enable-logging --enable-stats --enable-tracing
                 --enable-metrics --enable-gpu-metrics --enable-cpu-metrics
                 --enable-gpu
                 --filesystem=gcs --filesystem=s3 --filesystem=azure_storage
                 --endpoint=http --endpoint=grpc --endpoint=sagemaker --endpoint=vertex-ai
                 --backend=python:r23.10
                 --backend=vllm:r23.10
```
Option 2. You can install vLLM backend directly into our NGC Triton container. In this case, please install vllm first: `pip install vllm`, then set up vllm_backend in the container as follows:
```
mkdir -p /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm_backend
wget -P /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm_backend https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/src/model.py
```

Note: we should also mention separate container at some point

Author: Thanks for drafting these instructions. Added!

The backend repository should look like this:
```
/opt/tritonserver/backends/

> `-- vllm

Reviewer: we shouldn't name vllm backend as `vllm`, because it may cause circular dependencies with vllm pip package

Author: This needs offline discussion. Can't exactly remember in which of the meetings this was discussed, but ultimately we wanted it to be consistent with the naming of the other backends. Is there really a risk of circular dependencies?

CC: @tanmayv25

Reviewer: Resolving, not an issue any longer

Reviewer 2: What was the outcome of this discussion? I'm curious myself. I don't think there'd be any pip name collision issue, but could be wrong.

Reviewer: The thread is here: https://nvidia.slack.com/archives/CJN9422C9/p1696909555603859

    |-- model.py
 -- python
    |-- libtriton_python.so
    |-- triton_python_backend_stub
    |-- triton_python_backend_utils.py
```

> 

Author: Thanks! Added Olga's draft for this.

## Using the vLLM Backend

You can see an example model_repository in the `samples` folder.

> You can use this as is and change the model by changing the `model` value in `model.json`.

Author: Great point, thanks. Done!

You can change the GPU utilization and logging parameters in that file as well.

> In the `samples` folder, you can also find a sample client, `client.py`.

Author: Done. Good catch.

> This client is meant to function similarly to the Triton

Author: Done.

[vLLM example](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Quick_Deploy/vLLM).
By default, this will test `prompts.txt`, which we have included in the samples folder.

## Running the Latest vLLM Version

> By default, the vLLM backend uses the version of vLLM that is available via Pip.

Author: Done.

These are compatible with the newer versions of CUDA running in Triton.
If you would like to use a specific vLLM commit or the latest version of vLLM, you
will need to use a
[custom execution environment](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend#creating-custom-execution-environments).
Please see the
[conda](samples/conda) subdirectory of the `samples` folder for information on how to do so.

## Running Multiple Instances of Triton Server

Python-based backends use shared memory to transfer requests to the stub process.
When running multiple instances of Triton Server on the same machine,
you need to specify different shm-region-prefix-name using the --backend-config flag.

> **Note** There are known runtime issues if you do not launch with different region-prefix-names.
This can lead to to segmentation faults and hangs.

```
# Triton instance 1
tritonserver --model-repository=/models --backend-config=python,shm-region-prefix-name=prefix1

# Triton instance 2
tritonserver --model-repository=/models --backend-config=python,shm-region-prefix-name=prefix2

> ```

Reviewer 3: You can point to our Quick Deploy vLLM tutorial towards the end.

Author: Done.

Where can I ask general questions about Triton and Triton backends?
Be sure to read all the information below as well as the [general
Triton documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server#triton-inference-server)
available in the main [server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)
repo. If you don't find your answer there you can ask questions on the
main Triton [issues page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

## Building the vLLM Backend

There are several ways to access the vLLM backend.

### Option 1. Run the Docker Container.

Starting in release 23.10, Triton includes a container with the vLLM backend. This container has everything you need to run your vLLM model.

### Option 2. Build via the Build.py Script.
You can follow steps described in the
[Building With Docker](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/customization_guide/build.md#building-with-docker)
guide and use the
[build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)
script.

A sample command to build a Triton Server container with all options enabled is shown below.

```

> ./build.py -v --image=base,${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_NAME}

Reviewer: ${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_NAME} <- should we specify min image instead? Apologies, didn't include it in the prior comment

Author: Good thinking! Added.

# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD3-lightgrey.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

# vLLM Backend

The Triton backend for [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).
You can learn more about Triton backends in the [backend
repo](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend). Ask
questions or report problems on the [issues
page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).
This backend is designed to run
[supported models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)
on a

> [vLLM engine](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/vllm/engine/async_llm_engine.py).

Reviewer 3: After L41, let's also add a line saying this is a python based backend. We should also add another line saying that when using this backend all the requests are placed on the vLLM AsyncEngine as soon as they are received. All the inflight request batching and paged attention is handled by vLLM engine.

Author: Done!

Where can I ask general questions about Triton and Triton backends?
Be sure to read all the information below as well as the [general
Triton documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server#triton-inference-server)
available in the main [server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)
repo. If you don't find your answer there you can ask questions on the
main Triton [issues page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

## Building the vLLM Backend

> There are several ways to access the vLLM backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to take advantage of the vLLM backend.
```

### Option 1. Run the Docker Container.

Pull the container with vLLM backend from [NGC](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/tritonserver) registry. This container has everything you need to run your vLLM model.

### Option 2. Build a custom container from source
You can follow steps described in the
[Building With Docker](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/customization_guide/build.md#building-with-docker)
guide and use the
[build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)
script.

A sample command to build a Triton Server container with all options enabled is shown below. Feel free to customize flags according to your needs.

```

> ./build.py -v  --enable-logging --enable-stats --enable-tracing

Reviewer 3: If not specified, the scripts builds with FLAGS.upstream_container_version
https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/95d2ee7f6c0ab528ebde71da0c78a0a4af59d16e/build.py#L1519.

As we are pointing to specific release tag for the backend repo, let's specify this flag as well: https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py#L2326

It just makes it more aesthetic.

Author: Sure, done.

You can install the vLLM backend directly into the NGC Triton container.
In this case, please install vLLM first. You can do so by running
`pip install vllm==<vLLM_version>`. Then, set up the vLLM backend in the
container with the following commands:

```
mkdir -p /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm
wget -P /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/src/model.py
```

## Using the vLLM Backend

You can see an example
[model_repository](samples/model_repository)
in the [samples](samples) folder.
You can use this as is and change the model by changing the `model` value in `model.json`.
`model.json` represents a key-value dictionary that is fed to vLLM's AsyncLLMEngine when initializing the model.
You can see supported arguments in vLLM's
[arg_utils.py](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py).
Specifically,
[here](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/ee8217e5bee5860469204ee57077a91138c9af02/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11)
and
[here](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/ee8217e5bee5860469204ee57077a91138c9af02/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L201).

> 

Reviewer 3: @oandreeva-nv  Let's also point some important options like we do in the tutorial. 

```
For multi-GPU support, EngineArgs like tensor_parallel_size can be specified in [vllm_engine_args.json](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Quick_Deploy/vLLM/model_repository/vllm/vllm_engine_args.json).

Note: vLLM greedily consume up to 90% of the GPU's memory under default settings. This tutorial updates this behavior by setting gpu_memory_utilization to 50%. You can tweak this behavior using fields like gpu_memory_utilization and other settings in [vllm_engine_args.json](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Quick_Deploy/vLLM/model_repository/vllm/vllm_engine_args.json).
```
replace the vllm_engine_args.json with model.json.

Author: Thank you, added.

In the [samples](samples) folder, you can also find a sample client,
[client.py](samples/client.py).

## Running the Latest vLLM Version

To see the version of vLLM in the container, see the
[version_map](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/85487a1e15438ccb9592b58e308a3f78724fa483/build.py#L83)
in [build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)
for the Triton version you are using. These are compatible with the newer versions of CUDA running in Triton.

If you would like to use a specific vLLM commit or the latest version of vLLM, you
will need to use a
[custom execution environment](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend#creating-custom-execution-environments).

## Sending Your First Inference

After you
[start Triton](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/getting_started/quickstart.html)
with the
[sample model_repository](samples/model_repository),
you can quickly run your first inference request with the
[generate endpoint](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/protocol/extension_generate.md).

Try out the command below.

> You can replace _client input_ with your input text.

Reviewer 3: client_input is rendering quite differently. Can you fix it?

Reviewer: I'll take a look

Author: This was intentional to show that you need to replace "client input" in the command. Would you prefer a different formatting?

Author: Used quotes instead to be clearer.

#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#  * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
# EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD3-lightgrey.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

# vLLM Backend

> The Triton backend for [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).
> You can learn more about Triton backends in the [backend
> repo](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend). Ask
> questions or report problems on the [issues
> page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).
> This backend is designed to run
> [supported models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)
> on a
> [vLLM engine](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/vllm/engine/async_llm_engine.py).

Reviewer 2: 1. Issues page is already mentioned at bottom of this section
2. Swapping order of sentences

```suggestion
The Triton backend for [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)
is designed to run
[supported models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)
on a
[vLLM engine](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/vllm/engine/async_llm_engine.py).
You can learn more about Triton backends in the [backend
repo](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend). 

```

> This is a Python-based backend. When using this backend, all requests are placed on the

Reviewer 2: Would be good to hyperlink "python-based backend" to the docs on it when https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/pull/88 is merged.

Reviewer 4: We should normalize our terms:

python-based or python based

Author: Also, Python should be capitalized in my opinion. We capitalize Python in the [Python backend README](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend). Capitalizing the "p" in Python also aligns with the capitalization guidelines in [Python's style guide](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#capitalization).

Reviewer: Noted

Reviewer 4: are we consistent with 'P' capitalization in other places? Just double checking. As consistency within documentation would be more important

Author: Doing a search through the Triton Inference Server GitHub organization for markdown files with the word "Python" in them, we are pretty consistent with using capitalization. There are a few documents in the tutorials where we use both versions that we could update for consistency, e.g. [part 6 in tutorials](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/af67595b38c30738a4bdf356bc26e96203284139/Conceptual_Guide/Part_6-building_complex_pipelines/README.md?plain=1#L73) and the new [request cancellation document](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/328d51940c3402f3594bcab9c2c6155740cf043f/docs/user_guide/request_cancellation.md?plain=1#L100).

Reviewer: `Python-based backend` it is

Be sure to read all the information below as well as the [general
Triton documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server#triton-inference-server)
available in the main [server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)
repo. If you don't find your answer there you can ask questions on the
main Triton [issues page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

## Building the vLLM Backend

> There are several ways to access the vLLM backend.

Reviewer: not sure about `access`. Maybe : "There are several ways to [ add | utilize | try ] ..." ?

### Option 1. Run the Docker Container.

> Starting in release 23.10, Triton includes a container with the vLLM backend. This container has everything you need to run your vLLM model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in release 23.10, Triton includes a container with the vLLM backend. This container has everything you need to run your vLLM model.

Pull the container with vLLM backend from [NGC](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/tritonserver) registry. This container has everything you need to run your vLLM model.
```

Reviewer: We had a discussion at some point, to not use `Starting in release xx.yy'

> ### Option 2. Build via the Build.py Script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 2. Build a custom container from source
```

You can follow steps described in the
[Building With Docker](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/customization_guide/build.md#building-with-docker)
guide and use the
[build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)
script.

> A sample command to build a Triton Server container with all options enabled is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sample command to build a Triton Server container with all options enabled is shown below. Feel free to customize flags according to your needs.
```

```

> ./build.py -v --image=base,${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_NAME}-min

Reviewer: Apologies for re-iteration on this, I think it should be something like `--image=min,nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.10-py3-min` . Let me test it locally and I'll get back to you

Author: Thanks for bringing this up and testing! Changed to min, please feel free to correct as needed.

Reviewer: Let's just omit this all-together. I've checked and `build.py` will not support `min` , I was confusing it with how `compose.py` is doing this. I've tested locally, and confirm that container is building without `--image` tag.

> ./build.py -v --image=min,${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_NAME}-min
>                 --enable-logging --enable-stats --enable-tracing
>                 --enable-metrics --enable-gpu-metrics --enable-cpu-metrics
>                 --enable-gpu
>                 --filesystem=gcs --filesystem=s3 --filesystem=azure_storage
>                 --endpoint=http --endpoint=grpc --endpoint=sagemaker --endpoint=vertex-ai
>                 --backend=python:r23.10
>                 --backend=vllm:r23.10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./build.py -v  --enable-logging --enable-stats --enable-tracing
                --enable-metrics --enable-gpu-metrics --enable-cpu-metrics
                --enable-gpu
                --filesystem=gcs --filesystem=s3 --filesystem=azure_storage
                --endpoint=http --endpoint=grpc --endpoint=sagemaker --endpoint=vertex-ai
                --backend=python:r23.10
                --backend=vllm:r23.10
```

                --endpoint=http --endpoint=grpc --endpoint=sagemaker --endpoint=vertex-ai
                --upstream-container-version=23.10
                --backend=python:r23.10

>                 --backend=vllm:r23.10

Author: Done!

```

### Option 3. Add the vLLM Backend to the Triton Container

You can install the vLLM backend directly into the NGC Triton container.
In this case, please install vLLM first. You can do so by running
`pip install vllm==<vLLM_version>`. Then, set up the vLLM backend in the
container with the following commands:

```
mkdir -p /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm
wget -P /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/src/model.py

> ```

Reviewer 2: Not an action item here, but a random food for thought that could be nice for both users and developers. If we standardize on a certain python-based-backend git repository structure, we can do something like:
```
git clone https://github.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend.git /opt/tritonserver/backends
```

1. Single command
2. Developers could iterate on the backend directly and just reload triton without copying files/builds around
3. More support for multi-file implementations. The `wget` is nice, but won't scale past a single file. Ex: Imagine `model.py` implements `TritonPythonModel` but imports `implementation.py` that has all the gorey details for certain features.

Just some random Tuesday ideas in my head. Core would just be updated to also look for `src/model.py` or something instead of just `model.py`.

Reviewer: this will not work with git clone, since required `model.py` is in sub-directory of `vllm_backend`, plus `clone` will clone tests as well.

We can discuss the best solution at some point.

Reviewer: For the ease of development, I think your earlier idea of symlinks makes more sense.

Reviewer 2: We have a separate goal of improving python backend developer experience (more for things like debugging, ipdb, etc) somewhere in the pipeline, so this came to mind as a tangential idea.

Reviewer: I see, by any chance, do you know in what ticket this is tracked? If you don't remember, then no worries

You can see supported arguments in vLLM's
[arg_utils.py](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py).
Specifically,
[here](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/ee8217e5bee5860469204ee57077a91138c9af02/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11)
and
[here](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/ee8217e5bee5860469204ee57077a91138c9af02/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L201).

In the [samples](samples) folder, you can also find a sample client,
[client.py](samples/client.py).

## Running the Latest vLLM Version

To see the version of vLLM in the container, see the
[version_map](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/85487a1e15438ccb9592b58e308a3f78724fa483/build.py#L83)
in [build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)
for the Triton version you are using. These are compatible with the newer versions of CUDA running in Triton.

If you would like to use a specific vLLM commit or the latest version of vLLM, you
will need to use a
[custom execution environment](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend#creating-custom-execution-environments).

> Please see the
> [conda](samples/conda) subdirectory of the `samples` folder for information on how to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: Need to delete this basically

## Sending Your First Inference

After you
[start Triton](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/getting_started/quickstart.html)
with the
[sample model_repository](samples/model_repository),
you can quickly run your first inference request with the
[generate endpoint](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/protocol/extension_generate.md).

Try out the command below.
You can replace _client input_ with your input text.

```
$ curl -X POST localhost:8000/v2/models/vllm_model/generate -d '{"text_input": "client input", "parameters": {"stream": false, "temperature": 0}}'
```

## Running Multiple Instances of Triton Server

Python-based backends use shared memory to transfer requests to the stub process.
When running multiple instances of Triton Server on the same machine,
you need to specify different shm-region-prefix-name using the --backend-config flag.

> > **Note** There are known runtime issues if you do not launch with different region-prefix-names.

Reviewer: Can we link it to where this issue is described?

Reviewer 3: Python backend describes the issue. We should point to that section from here.

Author: Sure, I'll add it.

I had the example here originally because I think it's important we show that you need to use the backend-config for Python backend, since that's how we have it set up. --backend-config=vllm,shm-region-prefix-name=<prefix> would not work, I believe. And we don't need it to, since the Python-based backends would not conflict with the Python backend, so it's better to pass the prefix to the Python backend directly.

Author: Done.

$ curl -X POST localhost:8000/v2/models/vllm_model/generate -d '{"text_input": "client input", "parameters": {"stream": false, "temperature": 0}}'

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think the "client input" is a bit confusing to read. Maybe we can just remove the line saying "you can replace ..." and change to a real input ? I think it's pretty inituitive that they can change the values.

```bash
$ curl -X POST localhost:8000/v2/models/vllm_model/generate -d '{"text_input": "What is AI?", "parameters": {"stream": false, "temperature": 0}}'
```

Author: Sure, done!

# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD3-lightgrey.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

# vLLM Backend

The Triton backend for [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)
is designed to run
[supported models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)
on a
[vLLM engine](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/vllm/engine/async_llm_engine.py).
You can learn more about Triton backends in the [backend
repo](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend).

> This is a Python-based backend. When using this backend, all requests are placed on the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is a python-based backend. When using this backend, all requests are placed on the
```

Reviewer: I though we keep Python with capital `P` from here: https://github.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/pull/8#discussion_r1364214520

Reviewer 4: Good with whatever we bottom out on :)

vLLM AsyncEngine as soon as they are received. Inflight batching and paged attention is handled

> by vLLM engine.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
by the vLLM engine.
```

Where can I ask general questions about Triton and Triton backends?
Be sure to read all the information below as well as the [general
Triton documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server#triton-inference-server)
available in the main [server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)
repo. If you don't find your answer there you can ask questions on the
main Triton [issues page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

## Building the vLLM Backend

> There are several ways to take advantage of the vLLM backend.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are several ways to install the vLLM backend.
```

> ### Option 1. Run the Docker Container.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Option 1. Pre-built Docker Container.
```

### Option 2. Build a custom container from source
You can follow steps described in the
[Building With Docker](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/customization_guide/build.md#building-with-docker)
guide and use the
[build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)
script.

A sample command to build a Triton Server container with all options enabled is shown below. Feel free to customize flags according to your needs.

```
./build.py -v  --enable-logging
                --enable-stats
                --enable-tracing
                --enable-metrics
                --enable-gpu-metrics
                --enable-cpu-metrics
                --enable-gpu
                --filesystem=gcs
                --filesystem=s3
                --filesystem=azure_storage
                --endpoint=http
                --endpoint=grpc
                --endpoint=sagemaker
                --endpoint=vertex-ai
                --upstream-container-version=23.10
                --backend=python:r23.10
                --backend=vllm:r23.10
```

> ### Option 3. Add the vLLM Backend to the Triton Container

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Option 3. Add the vLLM Backend to the default Triton Container
```

Specifically,
[here](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/ee8217e5bee5860469204ee57077a91138c9af02/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11)
and
[here](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/ee8217e5bee5860469204ee57077a91138c9af02/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L201).

For multi-GPU support, EngineArgs like tensor_parallel_size can be specified in
[model.json](samples/model_repository/vllm_model/1/model.json).

Note: vLLM greedily consume up to 90% of the GPU's memory under default settings.
The sample model updates this behavior by setting gpu_memory_utilization to 50%.
You can tweak this behavior using fields like gpu_memory_utilization and other settings in
[model.json](samples/model_repository/vllm_model/1/model.json).

In the [samples](samples) folder, you can also find a sample client,
[client.py](samples/client.py).

## Running the Latest vLLM Version

To see the version of vLLM in the container, see the
[version_map](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/85487a1e15438ccb9592b58e308a3f78724fa483/build.py#L83)
in [build.py](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py)

> for the Triton version you are using. These are compatible with the newer versions of CUDA running in Triton.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for the Triton version you are using.
```

# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
# EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD3-lightgrey.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

# vLLM Backend

The Triton backend for [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).
You can learn more about Triton backends in the [backend
repo](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend). Ask
questions or report problems on the [issues
page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

> This backend is designed to run [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)

Author: Good clarification. Done.

with

> [one of the HuggingFace models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[vllm supported models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)
```

it supports.

Where can I ask general questions about Triton and Triton backends?
Be sure to read all the information below as well as the [general
Triton documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server#triton-inference-server)
available in the main [server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)
repo. If you don't find your answer there you can ask questions on the
main Triton [issues page](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues).

## Build the vLLM Backend

As a Python-based backend, your Triton server just needs to have the [Python backend](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend)
located in the backends directory: `/opt/tritonserver/backends/python`. After that, you can save the vLLM backend in the backends folder as `/opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm`. The `model.py` file in the `src` directory should be in the vllm folder and will function as your Python-based backend.

> In other words, there are no build steps. You only need to copy this to your Triton backends repository. If you use the official Triton vLLM container, this is already set up for you.

Reviewer 4: would installing dependencies be part of build? Or do we need a seperate section on dependencies?

Author: Good catch. I'll add this. I had made the assumption that this is using the vLLM backend, but we need to clarify/offer an independent build (e.g. adding these to a general Triton container).

The backend repository should look like this:
```
/opt/tritonserver/backends/
`-- vllm
    |-- model.py
 -- python
    |-- libtriton_python.so
    |-- triton_python_backend_stub
    |-- triton_python_backend_utils.py
```

## Using the vLLM Backend

You can see an example model_repository in the `samples` folder.
You can use this as is and change the model by changing the `model` value in `model.json`.
You can change the GPU utilization and logging parameters in that file as well.

In the `samples` folder, you can also find a sample client, `client.py`.
This client is meant to function similarly to the Triton
[vLLM example](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Quick_Deploy/vLLM).
By default, this will test `prompts.txt`, which we have included in the samples folder.

## Running the Latest vLLM Version

> By default, the vLLM backend uses the version of vLLM that is available via Pip.

Reviewer 4: by default this is in the pre-built container?

Maybe this is best described as the vLLM version installed in the system (or container).

These are compatible with the newer versions of CUDA running in Triton.
If you would like to use a specific vLLM commit or the latest version of vLLM, you
will need to use a
[custom execution environment](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend#creating-custom-execution-environments).
Please see the
[conda](samples/conda) subdirectory of the `samples` folder for information on how to do so.

## Running Multiple Instances of Triton Server

> Python-based backends use shared memory to transfer requests to the stub process. When running multiple instances of Triton Server on the same machine that use Python-based backend models, there would be shared memory region name conflicts that can result in segmentation faults or hangs. In order to avoid this issue, you need to specify different shm-region-prefix-name using the --backend-config flag.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Python-based backends use shared memory to transfer requests to the stub process. When running multiple instances of Triton Server on the same machine you need to specify different shm-region-prefix-name using the --backend-config flag.

> **Note** There are known runtime issues If you do not launch with different region-prefix-names which can lead to segmentation faults and hangs. 
```

```
# Triton instance 1
tritonserver --model-repository=/models --backend-config=python,shm-region-prefix-name=prefix1

# Triton instance 2
tritonserver --model-repository=/models --backend-config=python,shm-region-prefix-name=prefix2
```

> Note that the hangs would only occur if the /dev/shm is shared between the two instances of the server. If you run the servers in different containers that do not share this location, you do not need to specify shm-region-prefix-name.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Remove or combine with note above
